hi my name is Roger who Joan I'm going
to take a moment and talk to you about
the backup program in Windows 8.1 and
how it's a little different from Windows
8 now before I get too far into this um
there are two types of backup there's
one where you just backup your data
files which is called file history in
Windows 8.1 and Windows 8 it's also
called file history and then there's a
system image backup where backs up your
entire hard drive programs applications
data files the whole nine yards in
Windows 8 was called Windows 7 file
recovery now Windows 7 file recovery is
no longer available in Windows 8.1 so
let's start with the backup and we can
just start typing here file history and
it'll take us to file history and right
now um I have the first thing I'm going
to do is select a device where I want to
backup file history to so it's going to
go through a search here and then once
it finds the backup Drive I just select
that and hit OK and I'm going to say no
to this because I have done this before
for testing purposes but you might want
to say yes it just depends on what
you've done before um ok so right now
set up file history and what it's
basically doing is making a copy of all
of my files onto the external hard drive
and making a backup of it and it's
really that simple we could effectively
stop here all your data files are backed
up but what it's not going to backup is
your programs um before I get into that
let me just hit touch on advanced
settings here and then here you can
change how frequently you wanted to
backup I recommend every 10 minutes
especially if it's a desktop machine
you're probably not even notice that
it's running in the background and
anyways that's the way I would do it as
far as keeping saved versions at some
point you'll run out of space in your
external hard drive so I change it until
space is needed that's just the way I do
it but you have to decide for yourself
what works best for you so going back
here as far as creating a system image
now Microsoft put this thing here this
is a manual click you can create a
system image by clicking on it and
running it manually as of right now
there's no automated method of creating
an image backup on a scheduled basis so
unless you're going to do a script line
there are some partial scripts you could
do but most average users aren't going
to bother with that and the reality of
it is most people aren't even going to
use this system image backup because you
have to manually do it
so Microsoft's really made it so that
you pretty much the only backup program
they're really offering is the file
history on an automated basis I really
do hope that Microsoft will rethink this
I can only imagine what they're thinking
processes and which I'm going to guess
here is that they're trying to put
everything through the application store
through the app store that they want all
of the vendors to go through the app
store because if you have to reinstall
if you have to refresh your PC Microsoft
will restore all applications when you
do a Windows 8 refresh it will restore
all your applications that you were
installed through the app store but if
you have Adobe Photoshop Elements or
Adobe Photoshop or avid studio to name a
few programs that are not available
through the Windows Store right at this
moment it's not going to restore those
programs and so I hope Microsoft will
rethink this and at least give us an
opportunity to create a schedule to do a
system image backup and the other thing
of note that I want to mention in this
video
is that um this does this program only
backs up the files in your PC it does
not back up anything in SkyDrive Windows
8.1 kind of pushes the SkyDrive and that
is a direction that Microsoft is
obviously headed um I'll address that in
a separate video in the future but base
it on how to backup and restore from
SkyDrive but basically this pro this
particular file history program doesn't
touch the the data on the SkyDrive at
all and that's it for now